0_FLAC-converter.bash

This step is optional. The goal is to standardize the audio file format so that it's 24 bit 48 kHz and has lossless FLAC compression.
The script is set to optimize compession for minimum output file size. A side effect is that the process is a bit slow, with processing speed of ~20x (~3 min/hour of recording).
Removing the -compression_level 12 -lpc_type cholesky options results in a faster compression at the expense of 2-3% larger file.
Since this step needs to be run only once before archiving, I don't mind waiting a bit longer.


1_segment-slicer.bash

This Bash script cuts the original audio recording into 25 min segments with 5 min overlap.
This step is required to make recordings manageable by the following Python script, otherwise the memory requirements are excessive.
The products are mono* audio files in FLAC format, stored in a directory called tmp_segments. These files can be deleted after the next step.
Unfortunately, due to how audio is cut by ffmpeg, re-encoding is necessary.
*mono is sufficient for the next step. The final products will be derived directly from the original recording, preserving stereo.


2_sequence-parser.py (still in Jupiter notebook)

This Python script detects the beginning and end of signal sequences, adds 10 s buffers before and after the sequences, and outputs a file with start and end times for each sequence.
First, the audio file from each segment is loaded and processed with a 2D FFT to generate a spectrogram.
Then, noise level is measured in a narrow frequency band just below the signals, along with other two frequency bands meant to detect the presence of signals.
The audio levels are compared to the background noise, detecting signals when the audio level goes above a certain threshold (currently set to +3 sigma above mean noise level).
The detection is still noisy, so it needs a bit of filtering. Signal sequences at the beginning and end of an audio segment are discarded because they are incomplete, the 5 min overlap ensures that all sequences are captured.
Duplicate detections and "short" sequences of noise (e.g., in-game SRV operations) are filtered out.
The result is a list of start and end times in seconds, stored in a CSV file called sequence_timing.csv
Warning: sometimes this script breaks if there are discontinuities in the recording. The solution is to fill those breaks with low amplitude white noise.


3_sequence-slicer.bash

This Bash script is similar to script 2, but is designed to run in parallel, extracting each sequence of signals from the original audio file to small segments.
The audio format is FLAC with stereo channels, compression is maximized.
The script takes a while to run if the original file is large, so go grab a coffe!


4_transcribe-parallel.py  (still in Jupiter notebook)
The heart of the transcription. Still working on it.
This script takes advantage of parallelization to speed up processing. Make sure you change the number of processes based on your setup.
This script is sensitive to drops in SNR and sometimes the B signal will be split in two or three. Although rare, a warning is printed every time this occurs, better check.
It also performs the following checks:
- EOL symbol occurs only once
- EOL symbol occurs at the end
- No consecutive signals of the same type
- No undetected symbols
It outputs a CSV file containing the following information: 
- Sequence number, it's a progressive number in the recording
- Signal Type, the letter associated with each symbol, uses Seventh Circle's convention, the last symbol is called X.
- Time (s), relative to the lower left corner of each symbol*
- Frequency (Hz), relative to the lower left corener of each symbol*
- Correlation Value, it represents the correlation value between the reference "block" symbols and those found in the spectrogram.
  For tone signals, this is current a metric of the measured signal length vs average one. 

* Symbol D is referenced near the bottom part because it often extends into the low frequency noise.
  Perhaps a better reference could be the top left corner of "block" symbols, it could avoid the inability to detect the bottom oxtent of symbol d.
  
TO DO:
- Generate output spectrogram with shaded signals + their corresponding symbol